One thing that you might
have noticed already is that
this approach isn't necessarily
gonna scale super well itself.
We've just got all of these
variables floating around.
How is this gonna look when we have
20 variables all in the same scope?
Not super well, it's gonna be hard to
split things up into separate files.
So one thing that we can do right away
that's very simple is we can just collect
these properties into a variable,
like an object.
They call it state because
it's a useful technique for
kind of keeping track of every
piece of information that you're
going to need to render
the code on the screen.
So now we just need to update every
time we do n we need to do state.n.
Every time we reference x,
we need to do state.x.
But this is generally a better
way to do things than before, so
it still works, it's good.
One really nice thing about doing
this too is if you need to log
the values for all of these different
kinds of variables in your program,
you can do that with just a console
log and you can poke around.
You could also implement some
of these fancy techniques,
one's called time travel.
That's where you save out the states.
So you could just call JSON.strigify in
your state object, dump them out, and
you could write a little program
that maybe when you hit the left and
right arrow keys will kind
of step through the history.
So one of those would be pretty easy to
wire up now that you've got everything
that the rendering logic
needs in one place.
Another piece to note about how
we've been wiring things up is that,
generally speaking, doing things, like
modifying the state inside of your event
listeners, doesn't tend to
scale very well either.
Because maybe you're gonna have
multiple buttons that each do
basically the same thing.
Maybe it starts out
incrementing a variable, but
then you need to add
more custom domain logic.
So a good way of doing that
is to use an event emitter.
And then so
the first thing you can do is require
the EventEmitter library like this.
And then you can make
a new EventEmitter object.
I like to call it bus when I
do it when I do it this way.
So now instead of modifying
the state in these events,
we can emit an event that's
like a increment dash n.
So I can do bus.emit('increment-n'),
and we can move
these operations that actually are going
to modify the state someplace else.
So what I can do is now
bus.on('increment-n').
I can call the update function and
I can call this state.n++.
Another thing that we can do while
we're sort of doing a little bit of
refactoring work to make
this more scalable for
a bigger project is, instead of
calling update directly from here,
it's gonna scale better across multiple
files if we use an event for that as well.
So I'm gonna bus.emit('update') or
we could call it render or
we could call it something like that.
And then I'm gonna just listen for
the update event and
call update when it happens.
This is gonna be nicer so that we don't
have to pass in the update function
if we want to factor out all of
these events into their own file.
So the final thing that we need to do
is now, instead of updating the state
in here, we'll also commit an increment-x
event, and I can move this
code up here to do pretty much the same
thing as we were doing with increment-n.
Although, maybe x works a different way,
maybe it wraps around.
And so having this logic all in one
place let's us kind of put the sort
of policies about how the business
logic gotta work in a single place.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So (state.x + 1) mod 4.
So I think that ought to
work if I update the file.
Yep, so now when I click, once I go
past three it pops back around to four.
Another common thing that I would
do at this point is we kind of
are starting to see a separation in
what this chunk of code does versus
what the other chunk of code does.
So this is a good time to kind of
start moving some of these pieces out
into their own files.
So I can call this file,
I call it reduce.js.
This is sort of a term of the art
in these kinds of applications.
You have the idea of a reducer,
and the reducer operates,
it sort of listens for
different kinds of state transitions.
And it will modify the state and also emit
additional state events that it needs to.
So just save it there.
Now we can pass some
things in as arguments.
So maybe we get the event
emitter as an argument and
we also get the state as an argument.
So now we can move all of that
code into just doing this or,
We can clean up the code a little bit.
Another important thing is you might also
want to do something like instead of
even having the event
emitter exist at all,
to completely remove that temptation you
might just have an admit function that's
gonna live in the same scope
as your rendering logic.
That way you can't be
tempted to emit events or
do things like listen on events or
that kinda stuff.
Because this kind of architecture,
which is more or
less the redux architecture,
where you have a single state object and
you have a separate sort of reducer
that's gonna listen for events.
And then in your rendering logic,
the only thing that you're gonna do
is kind of emit additional events.
Maybe do a little bit of massaging
the data, like dealing with things
like formatting maybe
different form elements
into an object that you're gonna emit to
make those events be relatively clean.
But this is a good way of
kind of separating out
different pieces of logic that you
might have in your application.
So just to make sure that this still runs.
Yep, it's all running as before.
So I got a request to add
a new kind of feature, and
I think this would be pretty fun.
So we can modify this example now, and
I'm gonna commit that in
case I mess it up, refactor.
We also need to add the reduce function.
So we refactored with a separate reducer.